### Here are some important ones that you may find useful in this course:

- `cd`: change your working directory
    
    ```
      cd hw
    ```
    
    This command will change your directory to `hw`.
    
- `pwd`: present working directory
    
    ```
      pwd
    ```
    
    This command will tell you the full absolute path for the current directory you are in if you are not sure where you are.
    
- `.`: means your current directory
    
    ```
      cd .
    ```
    
    This command will change your directory to the current directory (aka. do nothing).
    
- `..`: means one parent directory above your current directory
    
    ```
      cd ..
    ```
    
    This command will change your directory to its parent. If you are in /workspace/day1/, the command will place you in /workspace/.
    
- `ls`: list files/folders in directory
    
    ```
      ls
    ```
    
    This command will list all the files and folders in your current directory.
    
    ```
      ls -l
    ```
    
    This command will list all the files and folders in your current directory with timestamps and file permissions. This can help you double-check if your file updated correctly or change the read-write- execute permissions for your files.
    
- `mkdir`: make a directory
    
    ```
      mkdir dirname
    ```
    
    This command will make a directory within the current directory called `dirname`.
    
- `rm`: remove a file
    
    ```
      rm file1
    ```
    
    This command will remove file1 from the current directory. It will not work if `file1` does not exist.
    
    ```
      rm -r dir1
    ```
    
    This command will remove the `dir1` directory recursively. In other words, it will delete all the files and directories in `dir1` in addition to `dir1` itself. Be careful with this command!
    
- `cp`: copy a file
    
    ```
      cp lab1/original lab2/duplicate
    ```
    
    This command will copy the `original` file in the `lab1` directory and and create a `duplicate` file in the `lab2` directory.
    
- `mv`: move or rename a file
    
    ```
      mv lab1/original lab2/original
    ```
    
    This command moves `original` from `lab1` to `lab2`. Unlike `cp`, mv does not leave original in the `lab1` directory.
    
    ```
      mv lab1/original lab1/newname
    ```
    
    This command does not move the file but rather renames it from `original` to `newname`.